22. The Burden of the Valley of Vision. What aileth thee now, that thou art wholly gone
up to the housetops? Thou that art full of stirs, a tumultuous city, joyous city, thy
slain men are not slain with a sword, nor dead in battle. All thy rulers are fled together,
they are bound by the archers. All that are found in thee are bound together, which have
fled from afar. Therefore said I, Look away from me, I will weep bitterly. Labor not to
comfort me, because of the spoiling of the daughter of my people. For it is a day of
trouble, and of treading down, and of perplexity by the Lord God of Hosts in the Valley of
Vision, breaking down the walls, and of crying to the mountains. And Elam bare the quiver
with chariots of men and horsemen, and Curran covered the shield. And it shall come to pass,
that thy choicest valleys shall be full of chariots, and the horsemen shall set themselves
in array at the gate. And he discovered the covering of Judah, and now did its look in
that day to the armor of the house of the forest. Ye have seen also the breaches of
the city of David, that they are many, and ye gathered together the waters of the lower
pool. And ye have numbered the houses of Jerusalem, and the houses have ye broken down to fortify
the wall. Ye made also a ditch between the two walls for the water of the old pool, but
ye have not looked unto the Maker thereof, neither had respect unto him that fashioned
it long ago. And in that day did the Lord God of Hosts call to weeping, and to mourning,
and to baldness, and to girding with sackcloth, and behold joy and gladness, slaying oxen,
and killing sheep, eating flesh, and drinking wine. Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we
shall die. And it was revealed in mine ears by the Lord of Hosts, surely this iniquity
shall not be purged from you till ye die, said the Lord God of Hosts. Thus said the
Lord God of Hosts, Go, get thee unto this treasurer, even unto Shebna, which is over
the house, and say, What hast thou here, and whom hast thou here, that thou hast hewed
thee out a sepulchre here, as he that heweth him out a sepulchre on high, and that graveth
an habitation for himself in a rock? Behold, the Lord will carry thee away with a mighty
captivity, and will surely cover thee. He will surely violently turn and toss thee like
a ball into a large country. There shalt thou die, and there the chariots of thy glory
shall be the shame of thy Lord's house. And I will drive thee from thy station, and from
thy state shall he pull thee down. And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will
call my servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, and I will clothe him with thy robe, and strengthen
him with thy girdle. And I will commit thy government into his hand, and he shall be
a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to the house of Judah. And the key of
the house of David will I lay upon his shoulder, so he shall open, and none shall shut, and
I will fasten him as a nail in a sure place, and he shall be for a glorious throne to his
father's house. And they shall hang upon him all the glory of his father's house, the offspring
and the issue, all vessels of small quantity, from the vessels of cups even to the vessels
of flagons. In that day, saith the Lord of hosts, shall the nail that is fastened in
the sure place be removed, and be cut down, and fall, and the burden that was upon it
shall be cut off, for the Lord hath spoken it.
Chapter 23
The Burden of Tyre
How ye ships of Tarshish! for it is laid waste, so that there is no house, no entering in,
from the land of Ketim it is revealed to them. Be still ye inhabitants of the Isle, thou
whom the merchants of Zidon that pass over the sea have replenished, and by great waters
the seed of Sihor, the harvest of the river, is her revenue, and she is a mart of nations.
Be thou ashamed, O Zidon, for the sea hath spoken even the strength of the sea, saying,
I travel not, nor bring forth children, neither do I nourish up young men, nor bring up virgins.
As at the report concerning Egypt, so shall they be sorely pained at the report of Tyre.
Pass ye over to Tarshish! How, ye inhabitants of the Isle! Is this your joyous city, whose
antiquity is of ancient days? Her own feet shall carry her far off to Sojourn. Who hath
taken this council against Tyre, the crowning city, whose merchants are princes, whose traffickers
are the honourable of the earth? The Lord of Hosts hath purposed it, to stain the pride
of all glory, and to bring into contempt all the honourable of the earth.
Pass through thy land as a river, O daughter of Tarshish, there is no more strength. He
stretched out his hand over the sea, he shook the kingdoms, the Lord hath given a commandment
against the merchant city, to destroy the strongholds thereof. And he said, Thou shalt
no more rejoice, O thou oppressed virgin, daughter of Zidon, arise, pass over to Khitim,
there also shalt thou have no rest. Behold, the land of the Chaldeans, this people was
not till the Assyrians founded it for them that dwell in the wilderness. They set up
the towers thereof, they raised up the palaces thereof, and he brought it to ruin.
How ye ships of Tarshish, for your strength is laid waste, and it shall come to pass in
that day, that Tyre shall be forgotten seventy years, according to the days of one king,
after the end of seventy years, shall Tyre sing as in harlot. Take and harp, go about
the city, thou harlot that hast been forgotten, make sweet melody, sing many songs, that thou
mayest be remembered. And it shall come to pass, after the end of seventy years, that
the Lord will visit Tyre, and she shall turn to her hire, and shall commit fornication
with all the kingdoms of the world upon the face of the earth. And her merchandise and
her hire shall be holiness to the Lord, it shall not be treasured nor laid up, for her
merchandise shall be for them that dwell before the Lord, to eat sufficiently, and for durable
clothing.
Chapter 24 Behold, the Lord maketh the earth empty,
and maketh it waste, and turneth it upside down, and scattereth abroad the inhabitants
thereof. And it shall be, as with the people, so with the priest, as with the servant, so
with his master, as with the maid, so with her mistress, as with the buyer, so with the
seller, as with the lender, so with the borrower, as with the taker of usury, so with the giver
of usury to him. The land shall be utterly emptied and utterly spoiled, for the Lord
hath spoken this word. The earth mourneth and fadeth away, the world languisheth and
fadeth away, the haughty people of the earth do languish. The earth also is defiled under
the inhabitants thereof, because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance,
broken the everlasting covenant. Therefore hath the curse devoured the earth, and they
that dwell therein are desolate, therefore the inhabitants of the earth are burned and
few men left. The new wine mourneth, the vine languisheth, all the merry-hearted do sigh.
The mirth of tabarettes ceaseth, the noise of them that rejoice endeth, the joy of the
harp ceaseth. They shall not drink wine with a song, strong drink shall be bitter to them
that drink it. The city of confusion is broken down, every house is shut up, that no man
may come in. There is a crying for wine in the streets, all joy is darkened, the mirth
of the land is gone. In the city is left desolation, and the gate is smitten with destruction.
When thus it shall be in the midst of the land among the people, there shall be as the
shaking of an olive tree, and as the gleaning grapes when the vintage is gone. They shall
lift up their voices, they shall sing for the majesty of the Lord, they shall cry aloud
from the sea. Wherefore glorify ye the Lord in the fires, even the name of the Lord God
of Israel in the isle of the sea. From the uttermost part of the earth have we heard
songs, even glory to the righteous, but I said, My leanness, my leanness woe unto me,
the treacherous dealers have dealt treacherously, yea the treacherous dealers have dealt very
treacherously. Fear and the pit and the snare are upon thee, O inhabitant of the earth,
and it shall come to pass, that he who fleeeth from the noise of the fear shall fall into
the pit, and he that cometh up out of the midst of the pit shall be taken in the snare,
for the windows from on high are open, and the foundations of the earth do shake, and
the earth is utterly broken down, the earth is clean dissolved, the earth is moved exceedingly.
The earth shall reel to and fro like a trunkard, and shall be removed like a cottage, and
the transgression thereof shall be heavy upon it, and it shall fall and not rise again,
and it shall come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall punish the host of the high
ones that are on high, and the kings of the earth upon the earth, and they shall be gathered
together as prisoners are gathered in the pit, and shall be shut up in the prison, and
after many days shall they be visited. Then the moon shall be confounded, and the sun
ashamed, when the Lord of hosts shall reign in Mt. Zion, and in Jerusalem, and before his
angels gloriously.